IL Cafe we have you covered
Cafe
working at some of those changes in
policy not just within icic alumni but
also in The General insurance industry
that I've actually or rather that are
geared towards making the customer
experience a lot more seamless and
productive especially when it comes to
that one really important aspect and
that is Claims Settlement now we do
understand that the pandemic has seen a
sort of a Philip in the kind of
initiatives that organizations like
ICICI Lombard have undertaken to ensure
this and there have been several things
that have happened to ensure customer
safety is prioritized especially in the
pandemic also seamless you know
integration of the safety with
digitalization sustainability at an
Institutional level all of this has been
implemented at icicl Lombard but then
it's always a good idea to understand
customer centricity and how all of this
is translated into changes at the level
of the user right so we've decided to
call on the experts and today we're
going to be catching up with Sanjay
dutta he is one of the most experienced
and accomplished people professionals
that we have in the insurance industry
today he is Chief underwriting
reinsurance and claims at ICS Lombard he
has almost 35 years of experience in
this particular space and he was in fact
part of the launch Team at uh ICS way
back in 2001. so we are in his safe
hands and thank you so much Sanjay for
joining us on IL Cafe welcome to the
show you know good to be part of the
show and that was a wonderful you know
introduction to what we do best as a
company which is held a you know
customer at his most distressing point
which is the Moment of Truth for us and
for that customer right it bases the
promise which we make when we your you
know she transfer the risk of certain
accident or some you know unfortunate
event you know expecting their lives or
their properties and so it's a you know
it's very very important that we
understand this aspect of the insurance
process which is whole wholly geared to
providing addiction absolutely
absolutely and I have several questions
for you Sanjay but let's start with you
know um customer purchase behavior I'm
sure you've seen it evolve over a period
of time so what are some of the
innovations that the company has brought
in in the claim settlement process uh
that speak to these customer queries
that address the change in behaviors
that we've noticed
yes you know the word Innovation is very
important in Insurance there are you
know two three ways where we look at
Innovation one is innovation on products
one is innovation on the you know terms
of the product you know so one could be
completely new category for a different
emerging risk say earlier when you know
when you started a company there was no
such thing as you know big you know
thing in the mind of customers be it
corporate customers or for individuals
you know around an emerging risk like
cyber risk for example you know now it's
you know slowly Gathering momentum it is
becoming becoming a product by itself
and we are looking at those covering
those kind of you know Innovation is
happening in the category of emergence
now let's take uh risks which were
always covered but there's a lot of uh
you know new coverages being added to a
certain risks when we'll talk about that
as we go with the same you know very
standard motor policy is now seeing a
lot of innovation in terms of what we
want to cover and see yes which is very
very important is that there are a lot
of Innovations in the claim process
which are linked to how the ecosystem is
including the role of technology which
serves to basically do two things one is
you know give us a lot of convenience
whether it's on purchase of insurance
but also in lodging and getting a claim
from us but also in the way uh you know
the ecosystem is changing uh in you know
in defining standards of service we uh
you know the customer you know
expectations you know on how this
service would be delivered and last but
not the least in how we also look at the
learnings from things it's not about
repeatedly you know having a claim you
know nobody wants to policy every day
you know people take lessons from a
particular event and then we kind of
shape ourselves to prevent such as this
is going forward so that it all in all
is where Innovation really plays a part
across various parts of the insurance
process right right understood Sanjay
now speaking of customer centricity and
customer friendly Services you mentioned
a few of those over there you also
mentioned the role of technology and and
we're quite aware that ICICI Lombard is
not new to you know Digital Services for
customers but that said the pandemic did
have the significant impact on the
insurance industry and digitalization
and how the two of them have sort of
found a nice place to tango so how did
ICICI lumbar really Embrace
digitalization in order to you know meet
these new customer demands given the
pressing needs and specific nature of
the pandemic which had placed a lot of
strain on the entire ecosystem I would
imagine pandemic had two kinds of
stresses one is you know did provided
stress to each one of us individually
which we all are aware of I won't repeat
that but it did you know provide this
stress to us as a company and to the
insurance process and some of that uh
you know of course has benefits in the
way the insurance industry is reacted
especially in India so we as a company
along you know with us the rest of the
industry reacted to less paying claims
arising out of pandemic which was
humongous and to this day for the one
single infectious disease which is
spread across the population we've made
more than 30 000 cars now that is of
course it has led to stress for us as a
company and they led to stress for the
consumers who've been affected and you
know we have to stress for them in time
trying to not only fight the disease but
also look at the financial aspects of
fighting this disease so that's one
stress which but what are the other
learnings of this particular event and
how did it help us in terms of a drive
for digitalization various other things
of course it helped us a lot you know it
actually you know there are so many
things where you know we do not have a
habit we formed a habit because of so
many ideas you know flowing around habit
because we we don't use those okay so
let's say for example the technology of
meeting each other on the digitally you
know these Zoom meetings teams meetings
all of that they were there earlier but
the way everyone had you know adapted to
it and you know took it on as a measure
was was a very important way of you know
forcing digitalization in a big way now
beyond that you know on the person's
side as a company what we how we reacted
was we started looking at you know
digitalizing a lot of archives process
and that came out of necessity you know
and you know it's the theory of
constraint which kind of drove us you
know we could the customers couldn't
meet us we couldn't win the customers a
lot of them were not in a position to
send this video physical documents then
how did we innovate so obviously we
innovated in various ways you know so we
said that you could download our app so
we should created an app which is a
service app and it's called I'll take
care and which through that you could
send a lot of your you know documents
let's say for reimbursement of uh go
with claim which you could send it
through that app you know comes to us
I'm able to process it and send out the
payment electronically back to you there
were a lot of things on the buying
process it's a lot of people are adapted
you know the whole process of going
online using UPI various modes of
payment where you know these coverages
were kind of renewed with us a lot of
people bought new policies you know
especially some of them bought kovit
covers which actually served to enhance
their normal you know either their own
employer employee coverages or their own
personal coverages because you need to
hire some insurance for such things
let's go which we never thought you know
it was not a you know it was absolutely
different from a Dengue or a let's say
malaria the coursework humongous even
for treating co-education who had a
serious profit in this so that was one
part the other part which really came
through was the whole issue of forcing
us to really look at our entire process
in terms of digitalization and what kind
of customer convenience we could we
could provide and it did not end with
health only we looked at motor people
you know did not want to come to our
office didn't want we couldn't go to the
you know let's say to the garages of the
homes to survey their vehicles could we
then you know we had we had started
developing a utility app uh you know for
self-survey or video things that really
took up and we did the video service
online and we were able to settle things
correct so that that was the other part
which kind of uh Health their processes
a lot similar things you know on uh the
rest of the products in terms of being
there being able to be sourced online so
he so we made a lot of products
available online maybe because people
wanted to transact online and last but
not the least we developed covers which
in terms of innovation which were in and
around the covet for example we realized
that not everybody needs to be Hospital
right a lot of people home care really
took off so we there were you know all
our products allowed home care which is
not part of the initial uh offering we
had so before we didn't allow home care
but on because of kovit we just let go
we allowed to operate everything was
digitally assessed and people you know
were able to digitally send us their you
know claim for basically the doctor
consultation as well as medicines
nothing other than because they stayed
at home and that brought down their
anxiety and especially in the second way
you know when they didn't need to go to
the hospital a large you know
populations of people were actually
affected they could took treatment at
home they were much more uh in a sense
uh confident of taking treatment at home
and the ones who were really sick
occupied hospital bed because hospital
beds came at a premium so they know that
differentiated we put in the whole
process around home you know home care
of you know Kobe claims and that really
took off that segment so Home Care
became a certain process last but then
not the least one of the key things like
I said you know apart is also making
sure such things don't occur we don't
end up getting hospitalized we don't
have any end up having a you know as
access with it so one of the key things
was how do our products enable people to
look at you know making sure that they
don't end up in hospital so we said
we'll allow uh we developed a standard
on first-time industry a product for
outpatient treatment you know costs so
we call it opd3 but that means the
product was bigly fit and the whole idea
was to make sure that you get get early
treatment for whatever symptom whether
it's Kobe fever or some other thing and
get a diagnosis so in our app which I
talked about I'll take care or even in
our product you are allowed any health
consultations and what it meant was that
you could you know sitting at home do
video consultation all that would be
paid for us cashless by our kind of
thing and that completely digitalized
Healthcare uh from a you know uh payer
perspective for we would we were now
paying for uh you know basically
Healthcare are sitting at your home
where you could you know teleconside you
could you know the video consult and you
know build that back to us in a cashless
manner through this product right so
that that's how these things totally
change the long answer to a short
question but I thought it's important to
really you know give a perspective of
how covet really kind of set us to think
differently and it was pushed uh you
know you know kind of a paradigm shift
in the way we operate digitally
absolutely and thank you you know for
sharing all those insights with our
viewers Sanjay it's useful to understand
how customer Behavior at the end of the
day has shaped or rather has uh informed
all these choices and decisions that
have been made in the organization uh
you mentioned motor insurance now Sanjay
I wanted to understand this is a bit
better for the benefit of our viewers
because this is an area where you know
claims are often a source of much uh
frustration so how has the claim
settlement process changed for products
like motor insurance in ICICI or Lombard
if you could dwell a little bit more on
that motor insurance uh has two aspects
you know and unlike other products it
has two very different aspects one is
what happens to the vehicle and you know
when an accident happens you know it
could be you know molesting like a
scratch to a big event like a theft or
it could be a total loss whenever you
know you were in some Grievous you know
incident where the car is totally
reshaped right the other aspect of motor
insurance which is extremely important
and which is what the laws of our
country you know especially the motor
vehicles act make sure that you cannot
drive use your vehicle on the road which
has a road you know a permit to travel
the road without insurance which
basically means that if you hate someone
with you know in a third party liability
insurance you need to have have third
party Library all the time when you
cover if you don't have it you could be
penalized it could be you know subject
to the law and that is what we provide
you know very clearly now these are two
very separate asteroids the third party
part let me come to that earlier is you
know happens in the background so I
don't think the customer gets effect as
long as they you know keep us informed
we deal with the third part that's the
whole purpose of the third party Library
people end up going to courts which are
known as motor accident claims tribunal
courts which are specialized Courts for
motor accidents where as insurance I
stepped into the consumers you know shoe
and deal with that case and pay for that
injury which instantly just for
everyone's information is Unlimited in
this country it's not limited liability
it could be unlimited for all practical
purposes but we take on that onus
because you are covered automatically as
you buy a new private car or you buy a
two wheeler but you know new private car
for three years two wheeler for five
years you're automatically covered as
you buy out completely now you have a
choice whether you want to cover your
vehicle also typically people when they
buy the new car You Know cover their
vehicle for the first year but after one
or two years they tend to not buy
insurance
vehicles that's where we advise that you
do keep your keep it covered it has two
aspects these there are total losses the
big losses which are basically theft and
a big you know damage to your car and
these are there are a lot of partial
damages now the I idea is that you
shouldn't have too much of anxiety
either way with the total loss or a
partial loss the partial loss we have
started using a lot of digital processes
which is basically we are saying that we
will use you know you could let's say
you had to have a windshield damage and
you wanted replaced you could just call
us we are on the video call just look at
your video and we have a vendor will
come into your home and you know fix
that you know when she correct
you have to small as as you call it
fender bender losses very small losses
to your door nothing where if somebody's
grazed your vehicle and all that you
decide whether you want to claim for
that if you want to claim for that we
can you know you know have your vehicle
picked up to the nearest garage which is
you're tied up with us could be a garage
you know which is part of the dealer
Network who sold the car could be a you
know stand-alone garage it depends on
where you want to take your vehicle and
you could you know get it delivered
there and people could you know prepare
a vehicle and give back to you uh you
know in time majority of our private car
trains are cashless which basically
means you don't have to pay anything you
just start to intimate you know or you
go personally go to the garage or we get
get it picked up it gets repaired and it
gets delivered so that's how it has
completed the process has become using
the video survey uh whether with the
garage or all that we are able to
deliver our approvals for these repairs
extremely fast so using digital means
whether it's for that windshield repair
for that bumper repair or for that it's
an entire repair of your four dollars
because it's with let's say kind of
damage in the flat then you know we just
do that online are able to give the go
ahead and you are able to start repairs
the garage is able to start request
deliver vehicle as fast as possible the
idea is to bring down repair them you
know and that depends on us in terms of
giving approval for your repairs based
on the amount of damage which you know
your vehicle has support and so that's
the other thing last but not the least
is the whole process around you know
being able to decide whether you want to
claim or not want to claim and all that
a lot of you know persons uh are uh not
in favor of not claiming very small
incidents because it affects the way
their premiums are calculated because
they believe they get a substantial
shaving in the premium because there are
no claims uh kind of record you know
staging that they can get premium
discounts up to 50 because of nuclear
importance right and lastly in motor I
think more and more conveniences coming
into the picture there's a lot of
innovation which we have done during the
pandemic we work with the regulator on
some sandbox initiative now the
regulator has come out with uh you know
uh you know certain directives which
allows us and we were the first to
launch it in the thing you know policies
where it allows you a floater policy
recipe that means you have two vehicles
you you are the owner of two vehicles
you can just get it covered under one
policy you have you know a car and a two
wheeler you can get it covered under a
floater policy can be ingredients of
getting it done at the same time and
also the way the entire planes process
the handle for both
and finally you know nowadays you know
the big thing which is coming is using
technology and the whole convenience
part of being able to share data so we
are now getting into a whole host of
measures which looks at two things how
you drive
and how much you drive so we have
developed you know pay as you drive and
we pay how you drive kind of uh you know
products which you know then gets into
your driving habits and also the amount
of usage you make of your card we
believe the less you use the more you
know the better you know it is for
avoiding accidents of course and the you
know the more the better you drive you
avoid accidents correct you know a good
driver both of them should be
incentivized on the Indian roads because
that's the whole idea is to make sure
that people use car optimally and they
drive it well right and that's where we
are now developing products which
Fosters good behavior on driving on the
roads you know usage wherever it is
required then of course you know you get
better benefits as a card thing and all
that so these are all the host of
benefits we are trying to address the
motor becomes a product which is a go-to
product it's just not a mandatory
product that people buy because that's
what the law of the land said we are
trying to make it into a good customer
Centric product which
gives Mobility solutions for them the
other area I wanted to check with you on
was travel right because clearly the
travel industry has
she has a faced uh uh horrendous time
um so it would be good to understand how
icse Lombard has actually worked with
the travel industry perhaps even travel
companies and so on to help improve uh
things for example pretty much the same
right the claim settlement process for
products like travel insurance would be
you know good to understand what we've
done here yeah that's a good one because
that you know travel insurance in the
ecosystem uh took a meeting for us as a
company as an industry as a whole
because of the fact that travel
virtually stopped for the first year and
a half of the pandemic nothing happened
on travel insurance so this was the time
for us to revamp our product we said you
know travel will hit back you know and
not just only a Revenge travel but in
fact their world you know will get back
to normal after the battery and people
will travel travel is both Leisure as
well as business travel as well as you
know travels for Education various other
things and it will continue it's
something which we need to you know
really look forward to so here we you
know look at two parts so one is what
enhancements and products can we proved
to take care of you know exigencies like
this so during the travel first lockdown
itself a lot of people were stranded at
various places you know before they
could come back to India and all of that
because they were traveling there was a
sudden lockdown across these things so
in fact a lot of our policies then paid
for you know their you know disruption
of store stay at this point of course
once they were out of India not
cancellation of trips and all that
that's you know the travel insurance has
to start you know up you know it started
and people were outside we did pay for
all of that went out of the way to take
care of them we going forward so that's
typically going to be covered in our
travel policy going forward if you face
disruption again and you know how the
pandemic is not that it's going to die
at once across the world there will be
Pockets everywhere each country will
have different you know measures of
lockdowns and you know the way we need
to take treatment we said that you know
our travel policies should be able to
clearly take care of part of these
uncertainties which goes forward right B
the other point is that a lot of people
will we have started enhancing a product
to take care of various things in into
in terms of leisure travel this year
travel is now going to be become just
focused it's not going to be just group
towards to just go and visit certain
places a lot of people will carry out a
lot of activities including adventure
sports somebody would like to you know
try slightly you know extreme travel in
that sense or longer division travels
and we our products are you know meant
to gear up to that so that's second part
so we are trying to make sure product is
able to address all these certainties
which are slightly more high risk than
normal travel which you have and finally
you know we're trying to make sure that
we have Solutions in travel for a lot of
the corporates who have a lot of the
employees abroad you know in terms of
you know whether covering them for their
corporate travel or giving them some
sort of solution where the work and come
back you know to India and all of that
right so it's amount of things we are
trying on the Travel front which is
trying to be different from the
pre-pandemic right yeah you know I was
thinking about it uh Sanjay as you spoke
as you were telling us about all the you
know different things that we've done
the Innovations are underway at
icicially but indeed I realize that
there's one emotion that underpins a lot
of this right and that's trust
um so from a larger perspective if you
simplify the insurance business I would
imagine you know catering to that trust
element in customers would be a critical
aspect so for the benefit of our
listeners of course you know I should
point out that uh ICS has an industry
leading ratio in the settlement of
claims but then even so Sanjay I want to
ask you how uh has the organization work
towards building trust with customers
so we have a very clear you know about
this agenda so we have to build trust
with our good customer service right
Insurance process also has unfortunately
based on every society it will have even
customers are bad right or ecosystem
which are bad we have to make sure that
they don't
you know take undue advantage of the
insurance school which we are creating
you know the whole idea is to and you
know give trust to the people who buy
you know are taking Charlottesville it
should not be accessed by people who are
wrong correct so that there's a fine
balance between the two but one of the
key features of building trust is
looking at our products to start with
first we're trying to make our products
all inclusive as possible to take the
health insurance policy for example
thanks to the regulator who's pushed us
also and we ourselves have you know
walked that path now if you know
everything including covet is now
covered there was some anxiety where the
equipment will be covered by a health
insurance policy now everything is so
which basically means that every you
know every part of the you know uh every
part of any illness which is there
except for illnesses which are not
accidental which is things like cosmetic
surgery or something right um you know
it's covered in your policy we have now
started getting into the Outpatient
Treatment space we're developing
products there so you know there could
be confusion what is inpatient treatment
what is occupation we are trying to
cover the Home Care treatment so it
gives a lot of the product is becoming
Broadway so that there's no confusion
around coverage so we do buy something
very clear that you're getting all these
coverages which even for the elements
which earlier is the politically
secondly we are also let's say you have
a different kind of product let's say a
benefit product which you know pays a
certain signature when you contract it
is earlier it was very restricted for
critical Embassy now we are you know
increasing the
number of diseases which are covered so
that you don't have a problem or
understanding whether this would fall
under heart or without Fall by heart
slash lungs or something else you know
you know you you wouldn't know because a
lot of us don't understand you know uh
medical terminology and all we are not
prepared we have not faced this
exigencies in our lives so the idea is
to make the selling process more and
more inclusive so you say a lot of it is
covered except for this one thing so
people understand you know what is known
as a kind of always thought process that
every risk is covered except for this so
your motor vehicle accident everything
is covered as long as it's an accident
not something let's say you're you know
your brake pad wearing away that's one
thing we very clearly says that anything
where it is wear and tear other than
wear and tear you know or you know
something like absolutely gross or
willful negligence we are covering of
all accidents you know obviously if you
went you know drive your vehicle down a
hill you're never going to cover them
because that's willful other than that
anything is you know whether it's flood
accident or whatever it is the third
thing and which is important the same
thing happens in travel as long as
you're out of India we are trying to
broaden the coverage that you know to
include the whole gamut of issues
including repatriation but area let's
say somebody's covet and it's a long
treatment repatriate humor her two or
two India so that the treatment
continues here for the next 30 days you
know those kind of issues which are
broadly important more so that if the
exigence is covered that is one approach
so that you understand what you get when
you buy the products is what you get
because in your mind should be very
clear that I am covering myself properly
assembly right B and and this is very
very important is the whole extent of
how should I claim and you know am I
getting a fair amount this is what I
paid for if I'm into getting paid so one
is to pay you know make sure that you
reject very little except for frauds you
keep you know want to keep paying
everything which has been
B when it comes to the claims process we
want to make it easy too that's why
digitalization comes in a lot just send
an SMS Lodge in a claim and reach out
we'll try to help you on your
documentation a very you know very other
important elements in case you need to
reimburse something more and more we
will now want to provide cashless
cashless means that as long as you
intimate uh you know you are you know
you're just in the insurance process you
don't worry about how much you'll get
back entire thing is taken care of yes
last but not least is the whole issue of
if there are you know certain deductions
or various you know important reasons
like you know like you know for example
for in a hospital the you don't get
certain things which you incur on your
own work which is not not connected to
treatment let's say you know calls from
the hospital to your home they are not
part of your treatment or somebody you
know staying you know as a relative in
your thing and you that's an extra thing
which you want to do other than that you
know we would want to cover everything
at the hospital you know policy similar
with motor things we want to you know
take care of everything more and more
nowadays you know what has become very
important is that deductions used to
happen because of your parts were
depreciated in water now we are saying
that you know we will have a coverage
which is called a zero depreciation
coverage which basically means that if
you're an old part you know old door
gets you know replaced I pay you 100 for
that old or not you know replace you
know cutting 50 because it's 10 years
old right so you know that's where
depreciation is you know know slowly we
are cutting down the amount which we pay
back to you of course it means you need
to pay more at the time of uh taking the
premium but at least it cuts off the
dissonance on claims similarly just take
home insurance and all that more and
more we are saying that we'll give you
everything basis uh you know your cost
of reinstatement of that home and you
know and we are building up you know
coverages in such a manner which is
extremely easy to clean send with you
know images to us and we should be able
to look at that image and you know tell
you the amount which needs to be paid
and you go out and pay it for repair of
your wall if I ever to hit your home you
know home in that sense or you know
sometimes the breakdown could happen so
that's one one is cashless to make you
make sure there is payment certainty and
wherever it's not cashless to be able to
pay most of it and be very clear that
this is the reason why it is not covered
because this was not accidental and not
meant to come under Insurance okay so
that's a broad way you know we are you
know trying apart from increasing the
coverage which is very very important
the other thing right since I have you
here it's not very often that we get to
speak to someone with the length and
breadth of experience that you have I'm
happy to be part of this because
ultimately you know the idea of building
trusts through the media and you know
the communication thing people must
understand that you know insurance is
not only about you know people get
worried about fine lines and you know
things like people you know things that
I mean more and more our attempt has
been to broad-based coverage cover every
kind of risk which we can at least
charge under a particular line of
business in terms of risk and be able to
be very transparent into the way we
settle the claims ideally casters when
everything gets paid or you know
reimbursement we should be able to pay
most of it unless there is something
which is not accidental yeah that's the
whole purpose and you know people like
you help to broadcast that thought a lot
because India is still in the nascent
under penetrated uh you know you know
kind of having a lot of trust issues
around buying insurance so we want to
catch people young get them to use
Insurance products fast actually
starting with youngsters with travel or
something like that a small you know
medical policies and all of that and
then move them on to bigger policies
where they you know carries them through
life in terms of risk and all of that
idea is to keep building trusts and
communication is the most important key
there yeah yeah you know I was coming to
that I I want to check with you since
you have a visibility over a long period
of time you've seen The General
insurance industry evolve
um you know if you could look into the
future Sanjay and give us a sort of a
idea of uh what that future is going to
look like for General insurance and also
with respect to claims particularly are
there any trends that are shaping the
future of the business so one important
uh thing is of course risk the risk will
keep changing I told you even earlier
you know in the year 2000 you know
emerging bricks are at Cyber or
something else was not very important
right or even pandemic was not at the
age you know work you know you know at
the Forefront in terms of artist
thinking so as risk changes people will
buy covers with you know changes the
risk profile correct and the risk
profile includes let's say nowadays
everyone is transacting on the net or
the using a lot of uh you know data and
all of that they're exposed to risks and
hence they need to be aware of uh
getting insurance at least for covers
which helps them to navigate such
Financial exposure in case something
happens to them right now that's one
part but in you know that's going to
develop strongly and it's going to align
with the way our lifestyles change and
how we move as a society right but the
more important thing and it's very very
important is the how will the products
be configured and B how will the
products be delivered in the future
correct the idea below the product
configuration is going to become more
and more personalized
you see that you know tomorrow at this
at the moment you're treated as a class
of consumer in that sense so let's say I
give you you know mandatory motor
insurance I'm just treat you as a new
buyer of motor insurance there's no
difference in the way we treat you for
third party Insurance between let's say
a person who buys Road you know has to
take Road tax payroll
essentially that tomorrow all that will
change we will look at your records your
risk behavior your risk profile your
scores could be things like that you
know civil other credit scores various
other things we'll try to you know build
that in and we already you know I have
already articulated some parts of that
in pay as you drive and pay how you
drive where you become as a very
important element of how insurance is
designed and procured and you know so it
could be a cohort of people like you or
it could be just you you know for
example depending on you know how you
display your risk behavior how you drive
how you think how you take care of your
health whether you go for
yearly checkups or not you know could be
a factor in the way we design production
you know let's say if someone is a
diabetic whether he's controlling the
diabetic or not this is hypertensive you
know there'll be a lot of chronic
illnesses
they're like you know as we have a long
life so all these factors will become
very important in the way we design the
product as well as select the consumer
who comes in of course one of the key
things there will be one of the key
things there will be that we will the
whole idea is to not only select the
right customers give them the right
products also give them the right price
for you know buying a product also at
the same time you know make sure that we
don't select the you know the bad
consumers before you learned one so that
we are able to then give you a right
price if I load my premium with people
who claim unnecessarily or you claim
fraudulently your premium which I paid
as a good customer you'll be paying will
be that much more due date it's our duty
to make sure that difference will happen
more and more insurance will be able to
differentiate between good and bad
customers keep out the extremely bad
ones like go the ones who are fortunate
out of the portfolio and hence we'll be
able to give you a better agreement last
but not the least and which will be
important the the amount of technology
which is now been used is at you know as
we call it in short take at that moment
is at a fairly you know basic level so
when we move into that level of
Technology with some of the other
Industries including people who you know
their Industries which will launch
rockets and all of that use we'll slowly
you know start percolating it not only
in banking but also in insurance so a
lot of the
you know the processes we have whether
it's claims process or product design
things will get automated simple
products and all will be able to
automatically be able to you know uh
give you responses there'll be a lot of
boy spots which will speak to you for
your doubts and clarifications there'll
be a lot of Tomorrow they'll be going
forward there will be a lot of
artificial intelligence which is going
to be used in paying attained
straightforward without any intervention
of people that's correct you know we see
your vehicle damage or if you
automatically I pay out that claim
without even interacting with you and
last but not the least there are other
Cutting Edge technology which is coming
in will will get Incorporated in the
insurance system because Insurance
system deals with the ecosystem and as
the ecosystem uses technology more
whether it's hospitals doctors you know
let's say pandemic made them use them
much more the Raj is all of that as the
ecosystem uses more technology let's say
5G coming in you know we'll actually you
know again you know give a Leap Forward
for technology we will as insurers start
using the much more you know thing
customers will demand you know that we
shape up to the new technologies so
that's that's what I was doing in terms
of crystal using but the sky is the
limit uh the under penetration in India
is humongous we are at one percent of
the GDP GDP you know in all mature
countries it is minimum of four to five
percent I believe you know with the new
regulator you know driving penetration
uh you know in terms of the new German
data is going to be a big big you know
push for you know getting more and more
people covered at least for the basic
risk health insurance the motor gets
covered their motor cards get covered at
least for things like a third party and
finally you know every time you travel
to out of India you should become a
better basic travel insurance or
domestically as well as outside I think
yeah so that you don't face exigencies
when you work out a lot of people
because but they don't they're not aware
of the risk they don't you know really
buy insurance just because they're not
aware I think awareness will take off
that is one big difference a lot of uh
social media you know alternate media
you know people like you will really
drive this initiative over awareness
because I think some of the whole issue
uh issues which come across is not only
awareness of the need to buy insurance
but also the kind of products which are
available and the way that you know the
you know entire process is not getting
digitalized and simplified everything is
available cashless you can you know
launch your larger things digitally a
lot of people don't know about this so
and because that's where the reason why
is a they are not aware be their trust
is most of these things I require I
think requires a lot of absolutely yeah
you know Sanjay I could tell you don't
put that crystal ball away Justice yet
because I still have I think we'll still
have need for it as we go on in the
conversation but a few things have come
out very clearly hyper personalization
in a sense if I were to use that word
the use of technology in the way you
know products are going to be not just
you know crafted but also delivered to
folks you know awareness levels are
certainly are going to be on the high
people are I think learning how to
unpack otherwise a complicated word like
insurance I mean up until now
um I'm hoping podcasts like this help
them understand the fine printers
speaking of print and stuff like that
here's here's a sort of a technical-ish
question
um what was the intent behind the use
and file regulation Sanjay while it will
make the product uh launch faster is it
not going to dilute the quality of the
product no so the uh the essential
difference between uh you know using
file and file in use you know when it
started there was you know and when
there was some regulatory changes you
know sometime back you know a few years
back whole idea was to make sure that
using file happened more in the
corporate space
for both airplanes for corporates
because they understand how they buy
insurance and why they buy insurance and
you know the the chance of Best Selling
are very little in that you know segment
then you know filing use was put in
place for you know b2c kind of products
business depends direct to Consumers
which has helped motor travel on these
things which are between two individual
customers so what happened there was the
Regulator wanted to make make sure they
have two things one is the coverage is
exactly as per what was promised the
processes were the wordings the cover
you know the everything was as per
promise and B you know make sure that uh
whatever was put in terms of uh our
filings as the prices for such as
production all are kind of adhered to so
that we do not have any dissonance when
it comes to charging the same rate let's
say you have a twin sister I can't
charge you and me I both stay the same
house I can't you know and both of you
let's say buying something very similar
let's say personal accident actually and
I just can't charge you know one 100
rupees for you and you know you have
twin sister 500 rupees just like that
because I think you get this opportunity
to charge at 500 you know so you know we
had to do it as per risk so both of you
at the same age I would the same profile
I would go for you're living in the same
place I had this like kind of say the
same profession I would have to charge
you similarly right right now that is
something which the regulator is finally
kind of got confidence in insurance
companies having you know putting the
underlying regulations which have now
come in uh and we've just been here to
stay in terms of policy order protection
how do you file what do you look at in
terms of pricing they say that now given
the need for product Innovation not only
for having much more products in the
market for various niches but also even
for this personalization will add a lot
of factors I'll put in a lot of add-ons
you know which are important to you
let's say you know me for example I
could have an add-on which takes care of
my spectacles now it's normally not
covered but there could be people who
would want to coverage for their you
know breakage or spectacles as part of
the health insurance policies now for
that cohort I didn't don't need to go
back to the regulator and get it
approved I mean all of that you can put
it in put in the you know the technical
note you know upload it in the
regulatory side and have you make sure
that it is asked for regulations the way
we are you know constructed and go ahead
and launch the product and see how it
you know progresses the idea is to
hostel Innovation time to you know speed
to you know launch is there and finally
a lot of iterations take place you know
a lot of these Innovations which are
hybrid will read a lot easier now let's
say this spectacle thing maybe is very
important for me the label I go out to
the market and look at my 100 of my
health insurance custom none of them are
interested in this particular obviously
that has not become a thing you have to
you may draw that particular product you
know that withdrawal process also
becomes very seamless now for me right
they have set rules on how do we draw
and all of that so that's why you're
using file comes in it is part of the
whole Innovation drive it is part of the
whole idea to bring in responsibility of
how to you know get retail customers
into your into the insurance World
develop trust and be able to do that so
the first thing forward is the regulator
started trusting us to be able to do all
of this and we believe that as a market
we are mature enough to handle these
things assets yeah no now again to come
to the lay uh you know viewer I'm quite
certain they are waiting for me to ask
you this question uh Sanjay why have and
here's where I want you to look a little
into the you know immediate past why
have insurance premiums uh risen so
sharply in the past year or so what is
and what's the trend going to look like
going forward as well uh Insurance
agreements have got up strongly because
two reasons let's take two different
categories health insurance it has gone
up for various reasons that Healthcare
inflation you know come is part of the
healthcare ecosystem you know there is
always inflation sometimes it is much
higher than the Consumer inflation we
experience as consumers right
Healthcare is a very very
people-intensive kind of Technology it's
intensive kind of area where actually
costs increase because the quality of
healthcare needs to improve the kind of
procedures we want as people are also we
don't want basic uh stuff we want people
to really do huge amount of tests and
all of that so all of that adds to you
know the healthcare as they call it the
health care seeking Behavior has also
changed Healthcare access Behavior has
also changed amongst consumers they want
to access more health care and because
you need to access more sophisticated
Health Care it will cost a lot
but bear in mind that some of this is
good thing for the country what we are
seeing is Healthcare cost improving is
something which makes Healthcare
available at a certain quality Care
available at your for radical treatments
for critical illnesses which were not
available in the country that's a few
decades earlier or we don't have to
travel to us for everything or Europe or
everything so now they are now available
locally and of course they'll cost a lot
of money but they'll be at one tenth of
the price of a USB City
get the same care with you know the best
of doctors and best of uh
let's say technology uh you know be it
scanning technology or operating
technology you know like you know these
are knives you know what have so many
kinds of new technologies coming in
which you could do to do it they cost a
lot of money and hence they charge a lot
of money and you need to pay for that
that is what health insurance that's why
we have started encouraging our people
to take higher coverage the higher the
coverage you know you you get better
bang for your buck for the uh Insurance
when a critical illness happens that's
where insurance is supposed to be right
the second pattern which is very
important is the whole issue of let's
take motor and other things in fact
motor is to drive the other way down now
motor we are going the right in terms of
hyper personalization so if you are a
good driver Drive less
I mean like actually your premiums will
go down correct and which is as at part
let's say you know you travel to Pune
every day you're going to community more
petrol so same thing with our you know
Insurance also your insurance you know
should be you know uh you know higher if
you travel to Pune every day from Mumbai
for you but if you travel from let's say
on Sundays or Saturdays you know use
your second week you should drastically
bring down your people so this hyper
personalization is going to help
third-party premium is actually as of
now even now in India is regulatory so
we have no role in that it all depends
on the number of accidents uh which
happen on the road as the government
takes more initiative on the number of
accidents it should bring you know rain
it down and B also because it's
unlimited uh reliability the courts also
decide
um liability and they keep paying more
and more based on various aspects of
your income and people who's been hit so
that has started going up because
minimum daily wages in India started
going up over the years so the court
judgments are more hence third party
premium subtitles and travel travel is
now again for uh kind of uh you know we
are getting it into areas of that so you
will if you travel to uh areas where
medical cost is very high you'll get a
high period you could travel to areas of
medical courses you will get very
looping this that's you know premiums
but what about you you brought up
Healthcare inflation and I am a bit
greedy usually on Isle Cafe and I try to
decode everything that comes at me in
the course of the conversations I've got
to ask you this why is uh Healthcare
inflation high in India help us
understand that Sanjay so two three
reasons uh one of course is the fact
that a lot of new technologies
so the Indian Health cares the amount of
spends which you are doing so Indian the
amount of spend lets even the government
does does as Healthcare spends is one of
the lowest in the world you know correct
that is now significant if it is not
only in the public space but there's
also a lot of stuff happening on the
private space
recap you know even capitalists now
flowing into Healthcare they've realized
the inadequacy during the pandemic it
really brought us a lot of stuff in
terms of faults fault lines initial
treatment so a lot of funding is going
to happen as we go forward see I think a
lot of the
you know increase in healthcare uh
treatment is a fact that we never
adopted technology
as we adopt technology and scale correct
let's say telemedicine for example you
can have access to healthcare sitting at
remote locations also correct look at
the amount of cost which people go
through because they're not able to get
good quality Health Care at the place
where they reside
and if they all keep coming to the
Metros or just a few you know very good
tertiary hospitals costs are going to
shoot up because there is limited you
know capacity as Healthcare
decentralizes good quality hospitals
slash centers where which can develop
under qpp initiatives to be able to
deliver at least preventive care up to a
certain level the basic procedures are
able to be you know handled there for
example covet taught us a lot now you
you we heard of situation where the
covet you know the kovit serious cases
where it required Ico treatment had to
be brought to Metro Cities A lot of
people came back from the things now
people have realized that people are
setting up capacities lot of uh
government extra government authorities
are working towards so that we have
enough oxygen enough stuff to handling
you know infectious diseases which take
a lot of our healthcare for us you know
even at the local situations see that's
two things it you know it brings down
Healthcare inflation it brings a lot of
patience inconvenience because he
doesn't have to travel he doesn't worry
about his family traveling to Metro to
look after him for a critical illness
and last but not till at least it has a
huge impact on health insurance premium
quite a long time the lesser the
inflation the more affordable you know
your insurance becomes so there are two
parts which in insurance premium subject
to one is impatient the other one is
fraud so we try to you know take care of
both but what is something we can do
Healthcare inflation is out of our hands
because it depends on the health care
sector so we keep hoping that as it
scales as its useful technology as more
and more procedures are have been
handled at the place where they ought to
be I think we could see a significant
reduction in cost as we go forward in
terms of the number of procedures in a
per procedure cost for this country
right while I told you don't put away
the crystal ball for just a bit you know
Sanjay I realize that you're not going
to be putting it away at all because you
have one eye in the future as you craft
all of these success stories for ICICI
number and buy extension the uh the
health industry insurance industry as
well and thank you so much for joining
us today and helping us you know
navigate this very difficult to
understand space of claim settlement
that and how you know all the various
things that inform the choices that are
the direction that this area is taking
consumer Behavior technology the
pandemic and then some uh it's been
great enlightening chatting with you
today
actually it was wonderful talking to you
you know questions were very very
relevant it really grew out a lot of
thoughts in me which you know has also
set me thinking I mean you know you know
the issues around uh you know trust how
do I keep generating more how do I
communicate awareness and all of that
one of the key things which I think uh
I've always uh you know
kind of really really punches of is the
need to make sure that in the customer's
mind once he's bought insurance he needs
to get peace of mind you know it's like
you know when once you brought a TV you
know in one of your things you know you
don't worry about whether the TV is
going to work or not work or come to
your home or not you know I bought a TV
you know your only thought maybe will it
last 20 years or 10 years you just worry
about that correct so that's the only
difference when you buy you don't worry
about whether it will get delivered at
your home whether it will be switched on
or not you know that if it's not switch
on they'll replace it correct so so I so
that's where fundamental trust is and
you know that's what I would um you know
want in short you know Insurance to
propagate and the persons who insured
from us assume that claims is for you to
take it it's an intangible product it's
not delivered the time when you buy the
product but whenever it happens claims
will be there if it is not you know it
if you're not getting paid it is
something wrong in the way we we design
products and you chose the products and
so that's something I can assure you
that we'll keep working towards making
sure that it should be covered in your
policy as long as it's a good claim it
should get get played you know
seamlessly without you worrying about
whether you know you know whether you
should get it or not it's just like a
consumer durable which you buy it should
work you know when you buy it for the
first time you should be delighted in
here in this case when you buy it I
don't want you to experience but if you
do ever experience it as a consumer it
should you know bring peace of mind
absolutely and I must thank you then in
advance for the Peace of Mind Sanjay and
thank you also one word time for joining
us in Isle Cafe that that's our motto
yes absolutely
you were listening to Il Cafe we have
you covered
[Music]